# Overview

## Introduction

The `Zend\Memory` component is intended to manage data in an environment with limited memory.

Memory objects (memory containers) are generated by memory manager by request and transparently
swapped/loaded when it's necessary.

For example, if creating or loading a managed object would cause the total memory usage to exceed
the limit you specify, some managed objects are copied to cache storage outside of memory. In this
way, the total memory used by managed objects does not exceed the limit you need to enforce.

The memory manager uses \[ZendCache backends\](zend.cache.backends) as storage providers.

**Using ZendMemory component**

`Zend\Memory\Memory::factory()` instantiates the memory manager class with specified backend
options.

```php
$backendOptions = array(
    'cache_dir' => './tmp/' // Directory where to put the swapped memory blocks
);

$memoryManager = Zend\Memory\Memory::factory('File', $backendOptions);

$loadedFiles = array();

for ($count = 0; $count < 10000; $count++) {
    $f = fopen($fileNames[$count], 'rb');
    $data = fread($f, filesize($fileNames[$count]));
    $fclose($f);

    $loadedFiles[] = $memoryManager->create($data);
}

echo $loadedFiles[$index1]->value;

$loadedFiles[$index2]->value = $newValue;

$loadedFiles[$index3]->value[$charIndex] = '_';
```

## Theory of Operation

`Zend\Memory` component operates with the following concepts:

> -   Memory manager
- Memory container
- Locked memory object
- Movable memory object

### Memory manager

The memory manager generates memory objects (locked or movable) by request of user application and
returns them wrapped into a memory container object.

### Memory container

The memory container has a virtual or actual `value` attribute of string type. This attribute
contains the data value specified at memory object creation time.

You can operate with this `value` attribute as an object property:

```php
$memObject = $memoryManager->create($data);

echo $memObject->value;

$memObject->value = $newValue;

$memObject->value[$index] = '_';

echo ord($memObject->value[$index1]);

$memObject->value = substr($memObject->value, $start, $length);
```

> ## Note
If you are using a *PHP* version earlier than 5.2, use the getRef()
&lt;zend.memory.memory-objects.api.getRef&gt; method instead of accessing the value property
directly.

### Locked memory

Locked memory objects are always stored in memory. Data stored in locked memory are never swapped to
the cache backend.

### Movable memory

Movable memory objects are transparently swapped and loaded to/from the cache backend by
`Zend\Memory` when it's necessary.

The memory manager doesn't swap objects with size less than the specified minimum, due to
performance considerations. See \[this section\](zend.memory.memory-manager.settings.min-size) for
more details.
